---
id: 613
title: 'Jonathan&#8217;s reading list, Winter 2012'
date: 2011-12-05T11:26:20+00:00
author: Jonathan Eyler-Werve
excerpt: 'At a recent event featuring a great many people smarter than me I asked for recommendations on amazing books to read in the upcoming winter. '
layout: post
guid: http://www.eylerwerve.com/?p=613
permalink: /2011/reading/
wpsd_autopost:
  - 1
categories:
  - Frontpage
  - Jonathan
---
At a recent event featuring a great many people smarter than me (the Transparency and Accountability Initiative&#8217;s wonderful #TAbridge workshop), I asked for recommendations on amazing books to read in the upcoming winter. This is what I got back, based on the following prompts:

### Recommended on &#8220;networks, sharing, democracy&#8221;

  * _The Leviathan and the Penguin: The Promise of Cooperation,_ Yochai Benkler
  * _Weath of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom,_ Yochai Benkler_
  
_ 
  * _Africa_, Richard Dowden
  * _The Corruption Notebooks: Volume 7,_ ed. Hazel Feigenblatt and Global Integrity
  * _Full Disclosure: The Perils and Promise of Transparency_, Archon Fung, Mary Graham and David Weil &#8211; @arfung
  * _The Myth of Digital Democracy_, Matthew Hindman
  * &#8220;The Quiet Coup&#8221;, _The Atlantic,_ Simon Johnson
  * _The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom,_ Evgeny Morezov
  * _Ambient Findability: What We Find Changes Who We Become_, Peter Morville
  * _Thrivability,_ Jean Russell, editor
  * __Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed__, James C. Scott_
  
_ 
  * _The Cognitive Surplus_, Clay Shirky
  * _Here Comes Everybody_, Clay Shirky
  * __Republic.com,__ Cass Sunstein
  * _The Revolution Will Not Be Televised : Democracy, the Internet, and the Overthrow of Everything_, Joe Trippi

### Recommended on &#8220;innovation&#8221; and &#8220;work&#8221;

<div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <em>Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress Free Productivity</em>, David Allen
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Rework</em>, Jason Fried and David Heinemeier Hannson
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Are Your Lights On?: How to Figure Out What the Problem Really Is</em>, Donald C. Gause; Gerald M. Weinberg
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>The Checklist Manifesto</em>, Atul Gawande
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure,</em> Tim Harford
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>The New New Thing: A Silicon Valley Story</em>, Michael Lewis
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Moneyball,</em> Michael Lewis
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Hard Facts, Dangerous Half-Truths And Total Nonsense: Profiting From Evidence-Based Management, </em>Jeffrey Pfeffer and Robert I. Sutton
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Envisioning Information,</em> Edward Tufte
    </li>
  </ul>
  
  <h3>
    Recommended on Lean startup (credit these to @rabble)
  </h3>
  
  <ul>
    <li>
      <em>Business Model Generation,</em> multiple authors
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>The Four Steps to the Epiphany: Success Strategies for Products That Win</em>, Steven Gary Blank
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>The Lean Startup: How Today&#8217;s Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Create Radically Successful Businesses</em>, Eric Ries
    </li>
    <li>
      <em>Running Lean: Iterate from Plan A to a Plan That Work</em>s, Ash Maurya
    </li>
  </ul>
  
  <h3>
    Recommended as &#8220;Great fiction&#8221;
  </h3>
  
  <div>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <em>Twilight</em> (and thank you <em>so much</em> for that <em>totally not sarcastic</em> suggestion, @brianherbert)
      </li>
      <li>
        <em>Borderliners</em>, Peter Hoeg
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <h3>
      My thoughts
    </h3>
    
    <p>
      A few quick reactions.
    </p>
    
    <ol>
      <li>
        I&#8217;ve read several of these already, and this does a nice job of validating the set &#8212; all of the books I&#8217;ve read were quite good.
      </li>
      <li>
        Nearly all of the books I&#8217;ve read were handed to me by @innokate &#8212; so much for crowdsourcing; maybe you should just marry an expert.
      </li>
      <li>
        Of the authors with strongly gendered names, 100% of them are male. No ladies. Which goes a long way toward <em>invalidating</em> the set: besides some 50% of the population, how many other viewpoints are not represented here? Hard to tell.
      </li>
    </ol>
    
    <h3>
      Request
    </h3>
    
    <p>
      Dear readers: please hack this list by posting suggestions in comments (some women, maybe?). I&#8217;ll recombine (along with input from other crowds) and share back on a later post.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      This list, like all posts here, is Creative Commons by/nc &#8212; feel free to repost and adapt.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      <em>&#8212; @eylerwerve</em>
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Thumbnail image &#8212; CC by/nc (Shop Boy)
    </p>
  </div>
</div>